OOPS:

Object oriented Programming systems

It is making the programming element as if it behaves like a real time entity.

1. Class  : It is a collection of objects having the similar behaviour
2. Object : It is an instance of the class 
3. Encapuslation: It is process of combining both data and member functions together
   inside the class.
4. Polymorphism: It is the ability of an entity to exists in more than one form.
   1. compiletime : The form to be exhibited is know at the time of compilation.
   2. Runtime : The form to be exhibited is known only at the time of execution.

Flowers: class
Rose, Lilly etc : Objects

class is a genraralized and object is a specific entity

class is a logical entity and Object is a real time entity

class cannot exists on its own, it will exists in the from of object

Human Beings: class
Praveen, Sunil etc : Object


Book : class, 
java Programming, C++ , C Programming



y= mx+c   // class
y= 4x+6  // one specifc line

access_specifier class <className>{
		// memeber variables;
		// member methods;
}
public class Employee{
	int empid;
	String name;
	String dept;   // instance variables or non static variables
	public void function1(){
		int x,y;  //local variables or method variables
		System.out.println(empid+" "+name+" "+dept);
	}
	public void function2(){

	}
}
classname objectname = new classname();
Employee emp1 = new Employee();
Employeee emp2 = new Employee();
emp1.empid;
emp1.name;
emp1.dept;
emp1.function1();
emp1.function2();

They will define the level of security for the data or methods

Encapsulation: It is comibining of data and methods in the class
It is required to provide the security for the data  / methods

1. public 
2. private
3. protected
4.            (default)



Employee emp1 = new Employee();

The activities performed while object is created are:

1. It will load the .class file into the memory.

2. It will instantiate the non static or instance variables.
   allocating space to the variables

3. It will intalizes the instance variables.

When objects are created memory will be allocated only to variables but
not for the methods;


Constructors
------------
It is building block of the objects.
Constructor defines the way to build the object, or it is used to
define the specific rule in creating the object.

Any object should be created with the constructors only.

1. default or zero parameter constructor  : user or system can provide it
2. Parameterized constructor : only by user


Constructor is a special method, which can be automatically executed
when ever the object is created.

It will be having the same name as that of class name.
It dont have any return type including void
it can be any access specifier but if we make it as private
then we cannot create objects.

It is used to intialize the variables

parameterzied constructors are used to define the rule.

this can be used as constant to refer the current object

this : As method is used to refer or call the one constructor in the another
       constructor.

Rules to remember while using this()

1. It must be the first statement in the constructor.
2. It cannot be a recursive call
3. It should not form a loop
4. It cannot be called from the instance methods but instance
   method can be called in the constructor.

static:

1. It can be applied to varaibles, methods and blocks
2. If applied on varaibles, all the variables share the same space and
   they can be called without creating the objects, ie., can be called
   on the class itself.

3. If applied on methods, they can be called directly on the classname
   with out creating the object.

4. If applied on block, it will be automatically executed whenever
   the .class file is loaded into memory.

if you have any static method it can access only static variables but not
non static variables, but a non static method can access both static and
non static variables.


1. static block 
2. Non Static block for every object is created.
3. Constructor
4. methods

compile time polymorphism
--------------------------
1. function/method overloading
2. operator overloading

A method is said to be overloaded when two or more methods have the same name
and if they differ in any one of the following:
a. Either in the number of parameters
b. Either in the type of the parameters
c. Order of the parameters


	public void test1(int a, int b);
	public int test1(int a, char c);
	public void test1(String x, String y);

	test1 is said to be overloaded.

	publi void area(int x);
	public void area(int x, int y);
	public void area(int x, int y, int z);


	public void test2(int x, String y);
	public void test2(String x, int y);
	test2 is also overloaded

	public int test3(int x);
	public float test3(int z);
	public char test3(int a);
	test3 is not overloaded, 
	overloading doesnot depend on return type

Runtime Polymorphism
--------------------

Associations;
------------
1. Has-a
2. Is-a  -- Inheritance
3. Uses: One class object is passed as parameter to another class method.
class Engine{
	int capacity;
	String stroke;
	String make;

}
class Car{

	String model;
	String fuelType;

	public void showDetails(Engine engine){


	}

}



	
Inheritance: It is the process of acquring the properties / data from one class
to another class

inheritance is basically for Code Reusability

The class which is giving properties is called as base / parent class and the class
which is acquiring properties is called a dervied / child class

extends keyword is used to inherit from one class to another.




1. permanent employee - name,desg,dept,exp,doj calSalary(){   }
2. contract Employee - name,desg,dept,exp,doj,contractPeriod , calSalary() {  }
3. Hourly Based employee - name, desg,dept,exp,doj,noHours,ratePerHour,
                           calSalary(){   }


Employee: (name,desg,dept,exp,doj)

PermanentEmployee by extending the Employee class
calSalary()

contractEmployee  by extending he Employee class
contractPeriod, calSalary()


HourlyBaseEmployee by extending the Employee class
noOfHours,ratePerHour, calSalary()


Method Overriding: It is the process of supressing the base class method
in the derived class, when both are having the same signature.

Data Overriding: It is the process of supressing the base class data 
in the derived class, when both are having the same names;

super: It is a keyword, used to refer the variables, methods or constructor
of its immediate parent class.


@Override annotation ensures that the base class method is only overrding 
in the derived class.


Object is the base class for all the classes in java, including userdefined
classes.
Methods available in Object class

public int hashCode();
public String equals()
public void wait()
public void wait(int ns)
public void wait(int ms, int ns)
public void notify()
public void notifyAll()
public String toString()
public Class getClass()
public Object clone()







































